lib/Neo4j/Bolt.md, before:

# NAME

Neo4j::Bolt - query Neo4j using Bolt protocol

[![Build Status](https://github.com/majensen/perlbolt/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/majensen/perlbolt/actions/workflows/tests.yaml)

# SYNOPSIS

    use Neo4j::Bolt;
    $cxn = Neo4j::Bolt->connect("bolt://localhost:7687");
    $stream = $cxn->run_query(
      "MATCH (a) RETURN head(labels(a)) as lbl, count(a) as ct",
      {} # parameter hash required
    );
    @names = $stream->field_names;
    while ( my @row = $stream->fetch_next ) {
      print "For label '$row[0]' there are $row[1] nodes.\n";
    }
    $stream = $cxn->run_query(
      "MATCH (a) RETURN labels(a) as lbls, count(a) as ct",
      {} # parameter hash required
    );
    while ( my @row = $stream->fetch_next ) {
      print "For label set [".join(',',@{$row[0]})."] there are $row[1] nodes.\n";
    }

# DESCRIPTION

[Neo4j::Bolt](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt.md) is a Perl wrapper around Chris Leishmann's excellent
[libneo4j-client](https://github.com/cleishm/libneo4j-client) library
implementing the Neo4j [Bolt](https://boltprotocol.org/) network
protocol. It uses Ingy's [Inline::C](https://metacpan.org/pod/Inline::C) to do all the hard XS work.

## Return Types

[Neo4j::Bolt::ResultStream](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/ResultStream.md) returns rows resulting from queries made 
via a [Neo4j::Bolt::Cxn](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Cxn.md). These rows are simple arrays of scalars and/or
references. These represent Neo4j types according to the following:

    Neo4j type       Perl representation
    ----- ----       ---- --------------
    Null             undef
    Bool             Perl core bool (v5.36+) or JSON::PP::Boolean
    Int              scalar
    Float            scalar
    String           scalar
    Bytes            scalarref (Neo4j::Bolt::Bytes)
    DateTime         hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::DateTime)
    Duration         hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Duration)
    Point            hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Point)
    List             arrayref
    Map              hashref
    Node             hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Node)
    Relationship     hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship)
    Path             arrayref  (Neo4j::Bolt::Path)

[Nodes](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Node.md), [Relationships](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Relationship.md) and
[Paths](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Path.md) are represented in the following formats:

    # Node:
    bless {
      id => $node_id,  element_id => $node_eid,
      labels => [$label1, $label2, ...],
      properties => {prop1 => $value1, prop2 => $value2, ...}
    }, 'Neo4j::Bolt::Node'

    # Relationship:
    bless {
      id    => $reln_id,        element_id       => $reln_eid,
      start => $start_node_id,  start_element_id => $start_node_eid,
      end   => $end_node_id,    end_element_id   => $end_node_eid,
      type  => $reln_type,
      properties => {prop1 => $value1, prop2 => $value2, ...}
    }, 'Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship'

    # Path:
    bless [
      $node1, $reln12, $node2, $reln23, $node3, ...
    ], 'Neo4j::Bolt::Path'

For further details, see the individual modules:

- [Neo4j::Bolt::Bytes](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Bytes.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::DateTime](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/DateTime.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Duration](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Duration.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Node](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Node.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Path](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Path.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Point](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Point.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Relationship.md)

# METHODS

- connect($url), connect\_tls($url,$tls\_hash)

    Class method, connect to Neo4j server. The URL scheme must be `'bolt'`, as in

        $url = 'bolt://localhost:7687';

    Returns object of type [Neo4j::Bolt::Cxn](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Cxn.md), which accepts Cypher queries and
    returns a [Neo4j::Bolt::ResultStream](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/ResultStream.md).

    To connect by SSL/TLS, use connect\_tls, with a hashref with keys as follows

        ca_dir => <path/to/dir/of/CAs
        ca_file => <path/to/file/of/CAs
        pk_file => <path/to/private/key.pm
        pk_pass => <private/key.pm passphrase>

    Example:

        $cxn = Neo4j::Bolt->connect_tls('bolt://all-the-young-dudes.us:7687', { ca_cert => '/etc/ssl/cert.pem' });

    When neither `ca_dir` nor `ca_file` are specified, an attempt will
    be made to use the default trust store instead.
    This requires [IO::Socket::SSL](https://metacpan.org/pod/IO::Socket::SSL) or [Mozilla::CA](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mozilla::CA) to be installed.

- set\_log\_level($LEVEL)

    When $LEVEL is set to one of the strings `ERROR WARN INFO DEBUG` or `TRACE`,
    libneo4j-client native logger will emit log messages at or above the given
    level, on STDERR.

    Set to `NONE` to turn off completely (the default).

# SEE ALSO

[Neo4j::Bolt::Cxn](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Cxn.md), [Neo4j::Bolt::ResultStream](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/ResultStream.md), [Neo4j::Types](https://metacpan.org/pod/Neo4j::Types).

# AUTHOR

    Mark A. Jensen
    CPAN: MAJENSEN
    majensen -at- cpan -dot- org

# CONTRIBUTORS

- Arne Johannessen ([AJNN](https://metacpan.org/author/AJNN))

# LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2019-2024 by Mark A. Jensen.

This is free software, licensed under:

    The Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

Commit message:

Update libneo4j-omni version check to expect 5.0.7
This warning is meant to be triggered in the following cases:
- The user upgrades Neo4j::Bolt without having upgraded Neo4j::Client first.
- The user manually installs non-matching versions of Neo4j::Bolt and Neo4j::Client.

min_lib_version should always be set to the latest released library version.

The warning should be non-invasive.

For example, users might intentionally run non-matching versions when a newer library version contains a bug. Until that bug is fixed and a new version of Neo4j::Client has been made available, users shouldn't be unnecessarily bothered by warnings. The warning was so far controllable by disabling warnings in the "misc" category. But that category is used for a bunch of unrelated things in Perl, and selectively disabling it at load time might be a bit tricky, requiring users to fiddle with BEGIN etc.

With this change, the warning category becomes "Neo4j::Bolt".

lib/Neo4j/Bolt.md, after:

# NAME

Neo4j::Bolt - query Neo4j using Bolt protocol

[![Build Status](https://github.com/majensen/perlbolt/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/majensen/perlbolt/actions/workflows/tests.yaml)

# SYNOPSIS

    use Neo4j::Bolt;
    $cxn = Neo4j::Bolt->connect("bolt://localhost:7687");
    $stream = $cxn->run_query(
      "MATCH (a) RETURN head(labels(a)) as lbl, count(a) as ct",
      {} # parameter hash required
    );
    @names = $stream->field_names;
    while ( my @row = $stream->fetch_next ) {
      print "For label '$row[0]' there are $row[1] nodes.\n";
    }
    $stream = $cxn->run_query(
      "MATCH (a) RETURN labels(a) as lbls, count(a) as ct",
      {} # parameter hash required
    );
    while ( my @row = $stream->fetch_next ) {
      print "For label set [".join(',',@{$row[0]})."] there are $row[1] nodes.\n";
    }

# DESCRIPTION

[Neo4j::Bolt](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt.md) is a Perl wrapper around Chris Leishmann's excellent
[libneo4j-client](https://github.com/cleishm/libneo4j-client) library
implementing the Neo4j [Bolt](https://boltprotocol.org/) network
protocol. It uses Ingy's [Inline::C](https://metacpan.org/pod/Inline::C) to do all the hard XS work.

The Alien module [Neo4j::Client](https://metacpan.org/pod/Neo4j::Client) provides the library. A Perl warning
in the `Neo4j::Bolt` category is emitted at load time if an outdated
library version is detected.

## Return Types

[Neo4j::Bolt::ResultStream](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/ResultStream.md) returns rows resulting from queries made 
via a [Neo4j::Bolt::Cxn](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Cxn.md). These rows are simple arrays of scalars and/or
references. These represent Neo4j types according to the following:

    Neo4j type       Perl representation
    ----- ----       ---- --------------
    Null             undef
    Bool             Perl core bool (v5.36+) or JSON::PP::Boolean
    Int              scalar
    Float            scalar
    String           scalar
    Bytes            scalarref (Neo4j::Bolt::Bytes)
    DateTime         hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::DateTime)
    Duration         hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Duration)
    Point            hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Point)
    List             arrayref
    Map              hashref
    Node             hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Node)
    Relationship     hashref   (Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship)
    Path             arrayref  (Neo4j::Bolt::Path)

[Nodes](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Node.md), [Relationships](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Relationship.md) and
[Paths](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Path.md) are represented in the following formats:

    # Node:
    bless {
      id => $node_id,  element_id => $node_eid,
      labels => [$label1, $label2, ...],
      properties => {prop1 => $value1, prop2 => $value2, ...}
    }, 'Neo4j::Bolt::Node'

    # Relationship:
    bless {
      id    => $reln_id,        element_id       => $reln_eid,
      start => $start_node_id,  start_element_id => $start_node_eid,
      end   => $end_node_id,    end_element_id   => $end_node_eid,
      type  => $reln_type,
      properties => {prop1 => $value1, prop2 => $value2, ...}
    }, 'Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship'

    # Path:
    bless [
      $node1, $reln12, $node2, $reln23, $node3, ...
    ], 'Neo4j::Bolt::Path'

For further details, see the individual modules:

- [Neo4j::Bolt::Bytes](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Bytes.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::DateTime](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/DateTime.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Duration](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Duration.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Node](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Node.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Path](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Path.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Point](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Point.md)
- [Neo4j::Bolt::Relationship](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Relationship.md)

# METHODS

- connect($url), connect\_tls($url,$tls\_hash)

    Class method, connect to Neo4j server. The URL scheme must be `'bolt'`, as in

        $url = 'bolt://localhost:7687';

    Returns object of type [Neo4j::Bolt::Cxn](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Cxn.md), which accepts Cypher queries and
    returns a [Neo4j::Bolt::ResultStream](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/ResultStream.md).

    To connect by SSL/TLS, use connect\_tls, with a hashref with keys as follows

        ca_dir => <path/to/dir/of/CAs
        ca_file => <path/to/file/of/CAs
        pk_file => <path/to/private/key.pm
        pk_pass => <private/key.pm passphrase>

    Example:

        $cxn = Neo4j::Bolt->connect_tls('bolt://all-the-young-dudes.us:7687', { ca_cert => '/etc/ssl/cert.pem' });

    When neither `ca_dir` nor `ca_file` are specified, an attempt will
    be made to use the default trust store instead.
    This requires [IO::Socket::SSL](https://metacpan.org/pod/IO::Socket::SSL) or [Mozilla::CA](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mozilla::CA) to be installed.

- set\_log\_level($LEVEL)

    When $LEVEL is set to one of the strings `ERROR WARN INFO DEBUG` or `TRACE`,
    libneo4j-client native logger will emit log messages at or above the given
    level, on STDERR.

    Set to `NONE` to turn off completely (the default).

# SEE ALSO

[Neo4j::Bolt::Cxn](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/Cxn.md), [Neo4j::Bolt::ResultStream](/lib/Neo4j/Bolt/ResultStream.md), [Neo4j::Types](https://metacpan.org/pod/Neo4j::Types).

# AUTHOR

    Mark A. Jensen
    CPAN: MAJENSEN
    majensen -at- cpan -dot- org

# CONTRIBUTORS

- Arne Johannessen ([AJNN](https://metacpan.org/author/AJNN))

# LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2019-2024 by Mark A. Jensen.

This is free software, licensed under:

    The Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004
